The President:
One of the reasons I ran for President was because I believed
so strongly that the voices
of everyday Americans,
hardworking folks doing everything they can to stay
afloat, just weren't being heard over the powerful voices of the
special interests in Washington.
And the result was a national
agenda too often skewed in favor
of those with the power
to tilt the tables.
In my first year in office, we
pushed back on that power by
implementing historic reforms
to get rid of the influence of
those special interests.
On my first day in office,
we closed the revolving door
between lobbying firms and the
government so that no one in my
administration would make
decisions based on the interests
of former or future employers.
We barred gifts from federal
lobbyists to executive
branch officials.
We imposed tough restrictions to
prevent funds for our recovery
from lining the pockets
of the well-connected,
instead of creating
jobs for Americans.
And for the first
time in history,
we have publicly disclosed
the names of lobbyists and
non-lobbyists alike who visit
the White House every day,
so that you know what's going
on in the White House --
the people's house.
We've been making
steady progress.
But this week, the United States
Supreme Court handed a huge
victory to the special
interests and their lobbyists --
and a powerful blow to
our efforts to rein in
corporate influence.
This ruling strikes at
our democracy itself.
By a 5-4 vote, the Court
overturned more than a century
of law -- including a bipartisan
campaign finance law written by
Senators John McCain and
Russ Feingold that had barred
corporations from using their
financial clout to directly
interfere with elections by
running advertisements for or
against candidates in the
crucial closing weeks.
This ruling opens the floodgates
for an unlimited amount of
special interest money
into our democracy.
It gives the special interest
lobbyists new leverage to spend
millions on advertising to
persuade elected officials to
vote their way -- or to
punish those who don't.
That means that any public
servant who has the courage to
stand up to the special
interests and stand up for the
American people can find himself
or herself under assault come
election time.
Even foreign corporations
can now get into the act.
I can't think of anything
more devastating to the
public interest.
The last thing we need to do
is hand more influence to the
lobbyists in Washington, or more
power to the special interests
to tip the outcome of elections.
All of us, regardless of party,
should be worried that it will
be that much harder to get fair,
common-sense financial reforms,
or close unwarranted tax
loopholes that reward
corporations from sheltering
their income or shipping
American jobs off-shore.
It will make it more difficult
to pass commonsense laws to
promote energy independence
because even foreign entities
would be allowed to
mix in our elections.
It would give the health
insurance industry even more
leverage to fend off reforms
that would protect patients.
We don't need to give any more
voice to the powerful interests
that already drown out the
voices of everyday Americans.
And we don't intend to.
When this ruling came down, I
instructed my administration to
get to work immediately with
Members of Congress willing to
fight for the American
people to develop a forceful,
bipartisan response
to this decision.
We've begun that work, and it will be a priority for us until
we repair the damage
that has been done.
You know, one of the
great Republican Presidents,
Teddy Roosevelt, fought to limit
special interest spending and
influence over American
political campaigns and warned
of the impact of unbridled,
corporate spending.
His message rings as
true as ever today,
in this age of mass
communications,
when the decks are too
often stacked against
ordinary Americans.
And as long as I'm
your President,
I'll never stop fighting to
make sure that the most powerful
voice in Washington
belongs to you.
Thanks.